# Lesson 1: Getting Set Up

[up](../readme.md)

## Meet Tsai!

> Meet Tsai. Tsai is a data professional, and she loves her job. She especially loves adding new data sets to her company's product offering, even though she doesn't really enjoy the numerous meetings, phone calls and emails that are needed to keep the various data sets flowing over time. 
She also loves it when new database features are released or when her company gets faster servers, even though she doesn't really like maintenance, downtime, pager duty and weekend hardware upgrades. But most of all, she loves tailoring access to the data so that different user groups can get what they need at high speeds and low cost.
Then again, she doesn't love it that this fine tuning sometimes means creating data silos just to keep things running both fast and cheap.
Tsai recently asked her boss if she could spend some time exploring Snowflake because she's heard that a move to Snowflake would allow her to do more of what she loves and a whole lot less of the things she doesn't love.
Her boss is excited about the proposal because he's been wanting to know more about Snowflake, too. Tsai and her boss agree that she'll use a Snowflake trial to do the Essentials Data Warehousing Workshop.


## Two User Interfaces (UIs) 
> The Main or Home interface is used for managing and viewing objects. The Worksheets interface is used for running SQL commands. Both interfaces have object pickers. Object pickers are hierarchical trees that allow you to find and select the objects you want to work with.  Many actions are possible from either interface choosing which interface to use depends on whether you prefer menu-driven or code-driven action.  

## Why a Trial Account?

> Tsai is ready to begin the Data Warehousing Workshop. She starts by navigating to signup.snowflake.com. She fills in her contact information and clicks continue. Before she has a chance to fill out the second screen, a call comes through from her former coworker and friend, Kishore.
Kishore has been using Snowflake for a while now, and he's already completed the Data Warehousing Workshop. Tsai asks him which options he thinks she should choose for her trial account.
Kishore tells her it's important to read the workshop requirements. He always double checks the requirements before he signs up for a new trial. Tsai is confused.
Why would Kishore need a trial? He already has a Snowflake user account as part of his job. Kishore explains that when using his work account, he only has access to some Snowflake features based on his job requirements.
But during the workshops, by using a trial account, he's able to see and use all of Snowflake features and he can try new things without worrying that he'll mess something up. Tsai checks the workshop requirements and submits the trial sign up form.
She now sees a confirmation message. The message quickly updates telling her to check her email. The email includes an activation link and by following it she's able to create a username and password for her trial.
When her new trial account opens, Tsai is confused again. The user interface, or UI, looks different than what she was expecting. Kishore explains that Snowflake changes all the time because it's constantly improving, but usually the changes are pretty small.
Lately, though, there have been some even bigger changes. A new, simpler UI has become available. The old UI is still around, but now it's called the Classic Console. Tsai uses a Classic Console link to open the ClassicConsole in a separate browser tab.
Then she clicks back and forth between them, noticing the similarities and differences. Kishore points out that depending on when a learner starts the workshop, they may see more of one UI than another, but luckily the concepts are the same regardless of which UI you use.
He advises Tsai that if anything doesn't look exactly like a screenshot in the workshop, she should trust herself to look around and try to find the way to complete the task anyway. The Essentials workshops are designed for people who like to be self directed.
They like figuring things out and Kishore knows Tsai likes a challenge. He reminds her that if she gets confused, she can use the learner discussion boards within the course to get back on track. She can also use Snowflake online documentation and the community forums to find answers.
If she decides she'd like more of a guided experience, she can sign up for an instructor led course where she can get immediate answers and help from Snowflake expert instructors.

>> NOTE: As of October 13, 2022, the Classic Console is no longer available without significant efforts by users and we no longer support its use in this workshop. 

## How to Get Help


> Hello learners.

> This video is all about how to get help when you're going through the badge workshops and some of the other courses that are on LEARN.SNOWFLAKE.COM. One of the really important places to refer to is the FAQs page, F-A-Qs. We have all kinds of answers, especially for things that cross-- where the information is applicable to more than one course or workshop. So "How do I reset the password?" You know, "How do I get a trial?" What if I already had a trial? What if my trials expired? What if I forgot my... Yeah. Just all the things that you might ask about trial accounts. They're all here in the FAQs. We also have an area in the FAQs where we talk about course content.
There are a couple of ways-- we'll come back to this real quick. Let me show you two other ways to find answers before we come back to this. So you're in the course... Sometimes we get questions where people are like, "wHaT? i dOn'T hAvE a DEMO_DB. wHeN dId wE cReAtE DEMO_DB?" or we have this other database we have you create called Utility Database. We are forever seeing somebody go, "wHeN dId wE cReAtE tHaT?" So you just come here and you search...and it shows you the exact page where you were asked to create that. So if you were in the course-- if you were on a page in the course, this same search bar appears in the left sidebar. I'll show you real quick...if it would load. You can put it here. So there's something you're looking for. "i nEvEr cReAtEd tHaT cOlUmN nAmE" come here and search for it. Don't ask in the message boards. "wHeN dId wE dO tHaT? Because it's just-- it-- yeah, that's..that's clutter. All right, so I mentioned that we have message boards. I need to talk about those. We used to have message boards on every single page, but we found that people thought we really wanted a lot of chit-chat in there, and we really don't. We only want pressing questions or things you need to alert the team to or things that are special to your situation that you overcame and you think might help somebody else. So we want you to help each other in these areas and we want you to alert us to issues in these areas. But we we don't want things in here that that really are solvable by some other method, like reading the FAQs or searching in the course search box. Here is an example that I put in just so I could show it to you. So people post very vague things. We can't do anything with this, so we'll just delete it. I know on some message boards they have rules of not getting rid of stuff, but we feel like the highest goal in our course is to reward the people who read every word in the main part of the page.
So we don't want people to feel like if there's eight threads they need to read all eight, we only want, "Hey, did you get this specific error? Check this thread!". So that leads us to another issue. If you post on a page, it all ends up in a central area up here on the discussion boards. And this is how we moderate your comments. We come in here four times a day and check to see what you guys are posting. We get people who come in and write "done" on every message board. The title of the post is "done," the body of the post is "done." We really do not want to clean up a hundred done messages a day. Please do not add a message because you think-- don't add a comment to a thread and don't create a thread because you think that's what it takes to get to move on to the next page because that's not how it works. All right, so we come in and we can see, okay, see, this is the exact thing I'm talking about. Less than a minute ago, somebody posted this. Whoever-- let's call this person. Diva3. Diva3, I am so proud of you. I am so glad that things are good for you so far. However. If all 200 people who came into this course today and hit this page and things were good, posted this same message, that would not change anything except my day.
I have to come in and clean those up. Please don't do this. By tomorrow I'll see that Diva3 has posted this on 30 different pages. Please don't do this. You can delete your own messages. So please do. If you post something and you think, "Oh, come on, I don't need to do-- I don't know why I wrote that. I should have looked in the FAQs." Delete it! We'll never miss it. Okay. So please do not post if there's a better way. Make posting messages your last resort. So what are some of the other ways you can get help? Well, you can actually read the pages. A lot of times we have a troubleshooting section on the on the steps that give people a lot of trouble. Always look and see if you've got a typo. Don't just dump your error message on us. You're here to learn. Read that error message. You know, we've got this one tricky thing. It's this part of a statement that people miss. Let's say I get this error message TOK_CONSTANT_LIST. Look how many places-- on three different pages, we got the same error, which is not horrible. And I answer it every time. "Hey, look, in this area, you forgot this.". But if those people had searched, like this person posted, if these two had searched, they would have found this, and we wouldn't-- we'd have two fewer threads. And, you know, it's not the end of the world. These are fine. This is a common mistake. It's going to happen to different people at different times. But my point is, let's keep these boards crisp because everyone will be able to get through the course quicker if there's not a lot of sludge to dig through. So, you run into a problem, you or you have a question, check the FAQs to see if it's answered.
You don't know where something happened, search the course to see if you can find it and redo it. You have an error, check to see if somebody's already posted, both the issue and the solution. I don't mind so much when people put "thanks, this helped me" because it does help help us when we go back to review things to realize that a lot of people are having the same problem and we can work that back into the content. But generally speaking, after a couple of people have said thank you, that's probably enough. We get it that this is not just one person's problem. Okay. So then we'll also get a lot where people post that, that they have an error and then they'll come back and say, I don't know if I already said this, but they'll come back and say, "Oops, I had a typo." Don't come back and say,"Oops, I had a typo." Come back and delete your original message because that's what I'm going to do, if I come across it. We really want real solutions to real problems. Everybody makes typos. But if you think-- if there's something you really struggled with and you were like, I know a lot of people are going to struggle with this, let me put it in. You can make a post that says, "Hey, in on step three where it says this, I actually misunderstood that.
I thought it meant this, but I figured out it meant this." That's a great thing to post. We love stuff like that. We love it when you guys figure out stuff we didn't think of, or you interpret things that we didn't think of. Great. Okay. So how do you solve problems if we're not wanting you to dump your error messages into our message boards? So there's different kinds, of course content topics that come up in the message boards. But we don't want to solve the issues for you. We want to help you learn how to solve problems. We have Stack Overflow message boards and you're getting the whole world trying to help you solve your problem instead of just me, my colleague James, and my colleague Brit, you know, you'll get like a lot of people trying to help you with an issue. You can look at the docs. You can go to the community discussion boards. If you have a deeper advanced question ask that on the community discussion boards, because then you'll be getting like a ton of Snowflake experts weighing in on why they think a certain thing was done a certain way. If you have a product suggestion because we get those, even. We're not-- I mean, you want dark mode, we get it, but we don't implement that. We're the education team. So there's an area of the community discussion boards called Ideas. You somebody probably already submitted that and you can vote for it, and that greatly increases the chance that a dark mode will someday exist. Instead of just telling me, because I'm never going to implement dark, dark mode because I don't even work on the product, I just work on educational materials.
So try very hard to put your input in the right place. Use the message boards for very practical discussions that help you get your labs done and help others get their labs done. Thank you.


